Initial PR for Court focused whitepaper revision (#22)
aragon/whitepaper: README.md

# Aragon Network

> The Aragon Network is an Aragon organization which provides infrastructure and services to users of the Aragon platform, and is governed by ANT holders. The existing Aragon infrastructure enables users to create and manage organizations. Each Aragon organization exists as a set of smart contracts which define the organization's stakeholders and their associated rights and privileges. However, some rights and privileges require subjective constraints which cannot be encoded in a smart contract directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Aragon Network is an Aragon organization that provides infrastructure and services to users of the Aragon platform, and is governed by ANT holders. The existing Aragon infrastructure enables users to create and manage organizations. Each Aragon organization exists as a set of smart contracts that define the organization's stakeholders and their associated rights and privileges. However, some rights and privileges require subjective constraints that cannot be encoded in a smart contract directly.
```

> The Aragon Court is a decentralized oracle protocol developed and maintained by the Aragon Network. The Aragon Court can be used by organizations, including the Aragon Network, to resolve subjective disputes with binary outcomes. When combined with the existing Aragon infrastructure, it enables an organization to create *proposal agreements* which define subjective constraints on an organization's operation that can be enforced by a minority stakeholders.

Reviewer 2: Should the end be "by a minority of stakeholders"? Or maybe remove the "a"?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Aragon Court is a decentralized oracle protocol developed and maintained by the Aragon Network. The Aragon Court can be used by organizations, including the Aragon Network itself, to resolve subjective disputes with binary outcomes. When combined with the existing Aragon infrastructure, it enables an organization to create *proposal agreements* that define subjective constraints on an organization's operation and can be enforced by minority stakeholders.
```

## Aragon's Permission Architecture

> Aragon Organizations control which addresses have access to perform actions on behalf of the organization in a permission registry called the *Access Control List*. Addresses on the registry can be externally owned accounts or contracts. Some contracts are intended to *forward* actions based on pre-defined criteria, for example a voting app will forward action after the successful approval vote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aragon organizations control which addresses have access to perform actions on behalf of the organization in a permission registry called the *Access Control List*. Addresses on the registry can be externally owned accounts or contracts. Some contracts are intended to *forward* actions based on pre-defined criteria, for example a voting app will forward action after a successful approval vote.
```

> By chaining multiple contracts together we can define complex criteria which constrain how actions can be performed within the organization. To illustrate this we can look at common scenario where an organization want to allow treasury funds to be transferred, but only if they are 1) proposed by a member of the organization, 2) approved by a majority of members, and 3) within a pre-determined budget. This can be accomplished by configuring a chain of permissions with each link imposing logical constraints on the final action as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By chaining multiple contracts together we can define complex criteria which constrain how actions can be performed within the organization. To illustrate this we can look at a common scenario where an organization wants to allow treasury funds to be transferred, but only if they are 1) proposed by a member of the organization, 2) approved by a majority of members, and 3) within a pre-determined budget. This can be accomplished by configuring a chain of permissions with each link imposing logical constraints on the final action as follows:
```

![](images/permissions.png)

*Figure 1: Token Manager --> Voting --> Finance --> Vault*

> The vault, which stores the organizations assets, grants the transfer role only to the finance application, which internally implements budgeting logic. The finance application's *Create Payments* role is assigned exclusively to the Voting application so that the only way to create payments is to successfully pass a vote. The voting application's  *Create Votes* role is granted exclusively to the Token Manager of the organization's native token. The Token Manager will forward actions from Token Holders the Token Manager's associated token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vault, which stores the organization's assets, grants the *Transfer* role only to the finance application, which internally implements budgeting logic. The finance application's *Create Payments* role is assigned exclusively to the Voting application so that the only way to create payments is to successfully pass a vote. The voting application's  *Create Votes* role is granted exclusively to the Token Manager of the organization's native token. The Token Manager will forward actions from holders of the Token Manager's associated token.
```

Reviewer: Also this section goes back and forth between capitalizing and not capitalizing app names, e.g. "finance app" and "Token Manager app". For clarity I suggest consistently capitalizing app names.

> This process effectively constrains how funds can be transferred in the organization, but the approval of a given transfer is ultimately authorized by majority vote, and its not unreasonable more a minority stakeholder to be concerned that a majority of the organization's members might decide liquidate the organization and exclude minority stakeholders in the process.

Reviewer 2: I think I don't fully get this part "its not unreasonable more a minority". "its" is a typo, right? (->"it's"). Also the word "more" here is confusing me, but maybe it's my English :-o.

Author: Not your english, just my bad grammar. This is fixed in my local repo, will push a new commit shortly.

> This process effectively constrains how funds can be transferred in the organization, but the approval of a given transfer is ultimately authorized by majority vote, and its not unreasonable more a minority stakeholder to be concerned that a majority of the organization's members might decide liquidate the organization and exclude minority stakeholders in the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process effectively constrains how funds can be transferred in the organization, but the approval of a given transfer is ultimately authorized by majority vote, and it's not unreasonable for a minority stakeholder to be concerned that a majority of the organization's members might decide liquidate the organization and exclude minority stakeholders in the process.
```

> To avoid this organization's need a mechanism to impose a constraint that can be enforced by the actions of any individual within the organization rather than a majority of participants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid a hostile liquidation scenario like this, organizations need a mechanism to impose a constraint that can be enforced by the actions of any individual within the organization rather than a majority of participants.
```

### Proposal Agreements

> Proposal Agreements are designed to facilitate these types of constraints within Aragon organizations. They allow an organization to define human readable terms and require proposers to deposit collateral before the users proposal can be forwarded to a voting app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proposal Agreements are designed to facilitate these types of constraints within Aragon organizations. They enable an organization to define human-readable terms that proposals must conform to and require proposers to deposit collateral before their proposal can be forwarded to a voting app.
```

> The human readable terms can be used to protect the interest of minority stakeholders as described in the previous section, but they can also be used to define basic quality standards for what supplemental information must be included with a proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The human-readable terms can be used to protect the interest of minority stakeholders as described in the previous section, but they can also be used to define basic quality standards for what supplemental information must be included with a proposal.
```

> Proposal agreements can be paired with a Voting app by assigning the *create vote*, *pause vote*, and *cancel vote* roles.

Reviewer: Is "Proposal Agreements" supposed to be capitalized here as in the previous section? (Ditto for later uses of the term.)

Author: I think standardizing on capitalizing it makes sense.

![](images/proposal-agreement-permissions.png)

*Figure 2: Proposal Agreement --> Voting --> Finance --> Vault*

With this flow, when a user wants to make a fund transfer they will be prompted to review and agree to the terms of the proposal agreement.

### Dispute Creation

> If a minority stakeholder feels that a submitted proposal has violated the proposal agreement terms they can choose to raise a dispute. When they raise a dispute they will need to deposit an equivalent amount of collateral, along with initial *dispute fees* determined by the Aragon Court. They can also provide *evidence* to support their position. The vote will be immediately paused until the dispute is resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a minority stakeholder feels that a submitted proposal has violated the proposal agreement terms then they can choose to raise a dispute. When they raise a dispute they will need to deposit an equivalent amount of collateral, along with initial *dispute fees* as determined by the Aragon Court. They can also provide *evidence* to support their position. The vote will be immediately paused until the dispute is resolved.
```

> If the original proposer feels that the dispute is valid they can opt to do nothing and the dispute will be automatically ruled in favor of the disputer. The proposers collateral will be transferred to the disputer and the vote will be canceled. If the original proposer believes they will win the dispute then they must also deposit *dispute fees* and provide evidence to support their position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the original proposer feels that the dispute is valid then they can opt to do nothing and the dispute will be automatically ruled in favor of the disputer. The proposer's collateral will be transferred to the disputer and the vote will be canceled. If the original proposer believes they will win the dispute then they must also deposit *dispute fees* and provide evidence to support their position.
```

Once both parties have submitted evidence and dispute fees, the case is scheduled to be reviewed.

## Aragon Court Protocol

Proposal Agreement disputes rely on a decentralized oracle protocol referred to as the *court* where *jurors* stake the Aragon Network's native asset ANT in order to earn the right to perform dispute resolution service and earn a portion of *dispute resolution fees*.

When a dispute occurs, a jury is formed by drafting jurors via *stake-weighted sortition*. Drafted jurors are required to commit to a ruling on the dispute within a commitment period, and then reveal their ruling after all drafted jurors have committed. The verdict is returned based on the majority decision of drafted jurors.

> Before the verdict is enforced, there is an opportunity to *appeal*, which repeats the adjudication process with a larger set of jurors. Appeals can be made a fixed number of times before a *final judgement round* that requires every staked juror to commit to a ruling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the verdict is enforced, there is an opportunity to *appeal*, which repeats the adjudication process with a larger set of jurors. Appeals can be made a fixed number of times before a *final judgment round* that requires every staked juror to commit to a ruling.
```

Reviewer: As we are using American spelling everywhere else, "judgment" would be the correct spelling here.

### Juror Staking

> In order to participate as a juror, an individual must acquire ANT and then deposit it into the court's staking contract. Similar to a [token bonding curve](https://blog.relevant.community/bonding-curves-in-depth-intuition-parametrization-d3905a681e0a), the staking contract uses the current balance of deposited ANT to determine an exchange rate between ANT and the user's stake in the court. Unlike a token bonding curve, we do not treat the resulting economic stake as a transferrable token. This curved staking approach encourages jurors to participate early and establish the credibility of an instance of the court, and enables the network to deploy multiple instances of the court protocol which compete with one another by specializing in resolving specific types of disputes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to participate as a juror, an individual must acquire ANT and then deposit it into the court's staking contract. Similar to a [token bonding curve](https://blog.relevant.community/bonding-curves-in-depth-intuition-parametrization-d3905a681e0a), the staking contract uses the current balance of deposited ANT to determine an exchange rate between ANT and the user's stake in the court. Unlike a token bonding curve, we do not treat the resulting economic stake as a transferable token. This curved staking approach encourages jurors to participate early and establish the credibility of an instance of the court, and enables the network to deploy multiple instances of the court protocol that compete with one another by specializing in resolving specific types of disputes.
```

Reviewer: Also, should "network" be be capitalized here? 

> enables the network to deploy multiple instances of the court protocol...

The staking and un-staking actions are governed by the following formulas:

**Staking:**

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?s&space;=&space;t&space;*&space;\(\(1&space;&plus;&space;d&space;/&space;b\)^r-1)

**Unstaking:**

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?c&space;=&space;b&space;*&space;\(1&plus;s&space;/&space;t\)^{\frac{1}{r}})

> Where `s` is the resulting stake in the court and `d` is the users deposit. When un-staking, `c` is the amount of ANT returned. The other variables represent state and parameters of the staking curve. `r` is the ratio of deposits to total stake, `b` is the balance of ANT in the staking contract, and `t` is the total amount of distributed stake.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where `s` is the resulting stake in the court and `d` is the user's deposit. When un-staking, `c` is the amount of ANT returned. The other variables represent state and parameters of the staking curve. `r` is the ratio of deposits to total stake, `b` is the balance of ANT in the staking contract, and `t` is the total amount of distributed stake.  
```

Once a prospective juror has staked they are considered *active* and eligible to be drafted to review cases. A distinction is made between a juror being *staked* and *active.* An *active* juror can *de-activate* themselves at any time, but they will not be able to *un-stake* until any pending disputes they have been involved in have completed.

### Juror Drafting

> Juror drafting is managed via a process of *stake-weighted sortition*. In order to manage the sortition process efficiently, all of the court's operations are scheduled into *Terms*. *Terms* are defined in seconds and cannot be changed after the Court has been initialized. Terms are transitioned by calling a public *heartbeat* function which is used to make updates to *active juror stakes* from the preceding term and generate a new *random seed* for use during the subsequent term. A portion of the courts fees are used to compensate the caller of the heartbeat for gas usage.

Reviewer: Might we want to use a word other than "Terms" here, so as not to cause confusion with the same word used in the context of "terms of a contract"?

Author: @izqui @bingen I think this is a good point, but also want weigh the impact this has on the clarity of the actual implementation.

Reviewer 3: I don't have a strong opinion on this. I picked the name after reading [this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legal_year). I guess we could also call it periods, but it seems more generic and less precise.

Reviewer: The phrase totally makes sense in this context, it's just that since we are also using "terms" to refer to the content of a proposal agreement, I thought it might be worth trying to avoid a terminology clash. Perhaps as long as we make the context of usage clear when using these words there will be no confusion. Just something to keep in mind :)

Reviewer 2: I totally understand the possible confusion but I don't have strong opinions about it. Poor knowledge of legal jargon (even in my native language) plus non-native English, haha :wink:

> Juror drafting is managed via a process of *stake-weighted sortition*. In order to manage the sortition process efficiently, all of the court's operations are scheduled into *Terms*. *Terms* are defined in seconds and cannot be changed after the Court has been initialized. Terms are transitioned by calling a public *heartbeat* function which is used to make updates to *active juror stakes* from the preceding term and generate a new *random seed* for use during the subsequent term. A portion of the courts fees are used to compensate the caller of the heartbeat for gas usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Juror drafting is managed via a process of *stake-weighted sortition*. In order to manage the sortition process efficiently, all of the court's operations are scheduled into *Terms*. *Terms* are defined in seconds and cannot be changed after the Court has been initialized. Terms are transitioned by calling a public *heartbeat* function which is used to make updates to *active juror stakes* from the preceding term and generate a new *random seed* for use during the subsequent term. A portion of the court's fees are used to compensate the caller of the heartbeat for gas usage.
```

> Juror drafting is managed via a process of *stake-weighted sortition*. In order to manage the sortition process efficiently, all of the court's operations are scheduled into *Terms*. *Terms* are defined in seconds and cannot be changed after the Court has been initialized. Terms are transitioned by calling a public *heartbeat* function which is used to make updates to *active juror stakes* from the preceding term and generate a new *random seed* for use during the subsequent term. A portion of the courts fees are used to compensate the caller of the heartbeat for gas usage.

Reviewer: The terms cannot be changed at all? Not even by a Network vote? And is this a global setting that applies to all courts, or does it only apply to specific instances of the court?

Author: cc: @izqui @bingen not sure about all the considerations related to adjusting this after initialization. 

As far as whether it applies to all courts, it would only apply per instance.

Reviewer 3: After some recent changes the duration of terms could be modified without it being a major issue, but I would keep it static for simplicity. Also the term duration is just the minimum unit of account for time in the Court and the duration in terms for the different states of a dispute (number of terms to commit, number of terms to reveal, etc) can be modified with a network vote.

Reviewer 3: Moving the conversation to #26

> ![](images/terms.png)

Reviewer 2: I feel this section about terms and heartbeat is a little bit technical compared to other sections that feel more "high level", but to be honest I don't know a better way to explain it.

Author: I agree, but I think its an important mechanic and should be included. I think we can revisit in later revisions/PRs.

*Figure 3: Court operations are broken into Terms*

> For each dispute or appeal we have a number of available *juror slots* which must be filled. Each slot can be thought of as a seat on the jury. A single juror can occupy multiple seats, but each seat is associated with an equal portion of their stake which is committed and locked until the dispute is fully resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each dispute or appeal we have a number of available *juror slots* that must be filled. Each slot can be thought of as a seat on the jury. A single juror can occupy multiple seats, but each seat is associated with an equal portion of their stake, which is committed and locked until the dispute is fully resolved.
```

> One block after the heartbeat function is executed for the term in which a dispute is scheduled, a function to draft jurors for that dispute is called. This function can be called at any point during the term and the resulting selection of jurors will be the same. If this transaction does not happen before the term ends the dispute must be rescheduled for a subsequent court term.

Reviewer 2: I think I would say "a function to draft jurors for that dispute can be called" instead of "is called", as it's more accurate and because otherwise it sounds like a contradiction with "This function can be called at any point during the term".

> One block after the heartbeat function is executed for the term in which a dispute is scheduled, a function to draft jurors for that dispute is called. This function can be called at any point during the term and the resulting selection of jurors will be the same. If this transaction does not happen before the term ends the dispute must be rescheduled for a subsequent court term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One block after the heartbeat function is executed for the term in which a dispute is scheduled, a function to draft jurors for that dispute can be called. This function can be called at any point during the term and the resulting selection of jurors will be the same. If the draft function is not called before the term ends, the dispute must be rescheduled for a subsequent court term.
```

> To make the draft function efficient, active jurors are arranged into a tree structure based on their stake. Using the random seed for the term and the id of the dispute a random number is generated and used to traverse the tree and arrive at a juror. This process is repeated until all juror slots for the dispute have been filled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make the draft function efficient, active jurors are arranged into a tree structure based on their stake. Using the random seed for the term and the ID of the dispute, a random number is generated and used to traverse the tree and arrive at a juror. This process is repeated until all juror slots for the dispute have been filled.
```

Reviewer: Is the "ID" a transaction ID?

Author: its unique identifier of the dispute (not transaction).

![](images/sortition-tree.png)

> *Figure 4: Traversing the sortition tree to select a juror*

Reviewer 2: I know Jorge did somewhere else (Forum?) but I would add a mention here to that medium article by Kleros guys.

> Due to gas constraints, the draft function can select at most 100 juror slots per call, so to select additional jurors the sortition process can be broken into multiple batches spanning multiple transactions. To minimize the number of transactions required to select a specific proportion of total stake the amount of stake per juror slot is increased.

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase this as:
"To minimize the number of transactions required to select a specific proportion of total stake, the required amount of stake per juror slot is increased in subsequent appeal rounds."
or something like that.

The sortition tree must be updated between terms as the proportional stake of jurors changes. Changes are queued and executed when the heartbeat function is called.

### Juror Ruling

> Once jurors have been drafted the dispute enters a deliberation phase where jurors are expected to provide a ruling in favor of one party or the other. Jurors are expected to make an independent judgement, but we assume that out of band communication between jurors is possible. For particularly nuanced cases there may even be forums and discussion threads used to discuss the details of a dispute. However, to minimize the ability of jurors to simply copy the voting behavior of other jurors we require rulings to be submitted in a two-phase commit reveal process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once jurors have been drafted the dispute enters a deliberation phase where jurors are expected to provide a ruling in favor of one party or the other. Jurors are expected to make an independent judgment, but we assume that out of band communication between jurors is possible. For particularly nuanced cases there may even be forums and discussion threads used to discuss the details of a dispute. However, to minimize the ability of jurors to simply copy the voting behavior of other jurors we require rulings to be submitted in a two-phase commit-reveal process.
```

> Jurors are given a certain number of terms, called the *commitment period*, to submit a hash of their ruling. After the commit period ends, jurors are given a certain number of terms to reveal their ruling, this period is called the *reveal period*. If a juror reveals their vote prior to the reveal period, anyone can use this information to penalize the juror in exchange for a reward. If a juror fails to commit and reveal a vote by the end of the *reveal period* they are penalized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jurors are given a certain number of terms, called the *commitment period*, to submit a hash of their ruling. After the commit period ends, jurors are given a certain number of terms to reveal their ruling; this period is called the *reveal period*. If a juror reveals their vote prior to the reveal period, anyone can use this information to penalize the juror in exchange for a reward. If a juror fails to commit and reveal a vote by the end of the *reveal period* they are penalized.
```

> Jurors are given a certain number of terms, called the *commitment period*, to submit a hash of their ruling. After the commit period ends, jurors are given a certain number of terms to reveal their ruling, this period is called the *reveal period*. If a juror reveals their vote prior to the reveal period, anyone can use this information to penalize the juror in exchange for a reward. If a juror fails to commit and reveal a vote by the end of the *reveal period* they are penalized.

Reviewer: I assume there is some random salt added to the hash to prevent brute-forcing the result?

Author: Yes, do you think that should be specified here, or is that detail something that should be in a technical specification document?

> After the conclusion of *reveal period*, a majority of support among drafted jurors is used as a *preliminary ruling*. The preliminary ruling is considered final if there is no appeal made during the *appeal period*.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the conclusion of the *reveal period*, a majority of support among drafted jurors is used as a *preliminary ruling*. The preliminary ruling is considered final if there is no appeal made during the *appeal period*.  
```

### Appeals

> Each dispute is subject to a maximum number of appeal rounds. Since each dispute and appeal round has a fixed duration, the max appeal rounds also determines the maximum amount of time before a final decision is reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each dispute is subject to a maximum number of appeal rounds. Since each dispute and appeal round has a fixed duration, the maximum number of appeal rounds also determines the maximum amount of time before a final decision is reached.
```

> Appeals can be triggered after a dispute has been resolved with a preliminary ruling in favor of one outcome or the other. In order for an Appeal to occur both sides of the dispute must deposit additional collateral. If neither side deposits the required collateral to trigger the next appeal round, the preliminary ruling is finalized. If only one side deposits the required collateral the ruling is immediately finalized in their favor. If both sides deposit the required collateral then the appeal round is scheduled.

Reviewer: Should "Appeal" be capitalized here?

> In order for an Appeal to occur...

> Appeals can be triggered after a dispute has been resolved with a preliminary ruling in favor of one outcome or the other. In order for an Appeal to occur both sides of the dispute must deposit additional collateral. If neither side deposits the required collateral to trigger the next appeal round, the preliminary ruling is finalized. If only one side deposits the required collateral the ruling is immediately finalized in their favor. If both sides deposit the required collateral then the appeal round is scheduled.

Reviewer: Is the appeal period extended if one of the parties deposits the required collateral last minute?

Author: There has been some discussion on how to handle this, a "quiet ending" rule could work, or we could require that the side which is appealing (as opposed to defending the current ruling) to submit collateral first. 

I think we can create an issue to address this after we merge this initial revision.

> The amount of required collateral depends on the appeal round and is a multiple of the fees required to compensate selected jurors. In higher appeal rounds where more juror stake is selected to adjudicate the dispute, the base amount of collateral required will be higher. The amount of collateral required will be a multiple of this amount, 2x the base amount for the side which is reinforcing the preliminary ruling, and 3x the base amount for side which is appealing the preliminary ruling. These deposit do not need to be supplied by a single party, but can be crowdsourced. When a final ruling is reached, the collateral of the loosing side will be used to compensate jurors and reward funders of the opposing side proportional to their contribution.

Reviewer 2: Where are those numbers `2x` and `3x` coming from?

Author: The exact numbers / ratio is somewhat arbitrary, the goal is to ensure that the side that is reinforcing the ruling has an advantage, so that people are encouraged not to appeal.

Reviewer 2: Hm, not sure if this sounds fair though.

> The amount of required collateral depends on the appeal round and is a multiple of the fees required to compensate selected jurors. In higher appeal rounds where more juror stake is selected to adjudicate the dispute, the base amount of collateral required will be higher. The amount of collateral required will be a multiple of this amount, 2x the base amount for the side which is reinforcing the preliminary ruling, and 3x the base amount for side which is appealing the preliminary ruling. These deposit do not need to be supplied by a single party, but can be crowdsourced. When a final ruling is reached, the collateral of the loosing side will be used to compensate jurors and reward funders of the opposing side proportional to their contribution.

Reviewer 2: In this section it seems that "collateral" is mixed with fees for jurors, while in the first round (the dispute itself) it says: "they will need to deposit an equivalent amount of collateral, along with initial *dispute fees* determined by the Aragon Court" (so there's a clear distinction between collateral and jurors fees).
Actually from this paragraph one may think that collateral in subsequent appeals is only meant for juror fees, but in `Redistributing Collateral` section below it says:
"If there was any appeal rounds before the final ruling, the total amount of collateral that was deposited for triggering each round will be assigned to the appealer supporting the final ruling." 
All of this made me think, assuming in every round there are both collateral to be slashed/redistributed among proposer and appealer and fees to compensate jurors, that if we route (at contract level) all appeals through Proposal Agreements app (and then Proposal agreements app calls Court to raise the dispute) then we could collateral and fees separate in every round, so collateral would always  stay on Proposal Agreements and Court wouldn't need to know about it. When Court would call `rule` function in Proposal Agreements, collateral would be redistributed. I think this would be cleaner as would keep Court agnostic about external collateral requirements.

Reviewer 2: Besides I wonder if routing appeals through Proposal Agreements could be something useful generally speaking for the Court, in the sense that an organization using the Court may want to control who can appeal (e.g., only shareholders of org, but requiring stake in DAI which anybody can have).
Actually the original [ERC 792 interface](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/792) says: "It should be called by the Arbitrable contract."

Reviewer 3: The problem is that it wouldn't be possible for the ruling to be flipped if someone puts up collateral to start an appeal against the previous round's ruling, but no one puts collateral to support the current court ruling.

Apart from this, the collateral for appeals doesn't necessarily need to be the same collateral type as the one used in the Proposal Agreement (which could be an organization's native token for example). By making it the same token as the fee token, the collateral requirement can be proportional to the juror fee (without needing a price feed).

Reviewer 2: > The problem is that it wouldn't be possible for the ruling to be flipped...

Hm, good point, although we could move this logic to Proposal Agreements.

> By making it the same token as the fee token, the collateral requirement can be proportional to the juror fee

But what do you need it to be proportional? I may be still confused regarding collateral and fees, but the way i understand it:
- Collateral: any token the org decides (for instance their native token), from and for proposer and challenger. They put it and they have it slashed if they loose, they earn it if they win. Jurors don't ever touch it.
- Fees: got from ANT, paid by proposer and challenger, earn by jurors. Proposer and challenger never earn it.
That's why I think it's a good thing to have them decoupled, and that the Court is agnostic about collateral (another org consuming Court services may decide not to require collateral at all).

Reviewer 2: > The problem is that it wouldn't be possible for the ruling to be flipped if ...

Actually I think the ruling could still be flipped. Everything would be the same, but the Proposal Agreements contract would keep info about collateral used in appeals, which would be redistributed on `rule` function.

> The amount of required collateral depends on the appeal round and is a multiple of the fees required to compensate selected jurors. In higher appeal rounds where more juror stake is selected to adjudicate the dispute, the base amount of collateral required will be higher. The amount of collateral required will be a multiple of this amount, 2x the base amount for the side which is reinforcing the preliminary ruling, and 3x the base amount for side which is appealing the preliminary ruling. These deposit do not need to be supplied by a single party, but can be crowdsourced. When a final ruling is reached, the collateral of the loosing side will be used to compensate jurors and reward funders of the opposing side proportional to their contribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of required collateral depends on the appeal round and is a multiple of the fees required to compensate selected jurors. In higher appeal rounds where more juror stake is selected to adjudicate the dispute, the base amount of collateral required will be higher. The amount of collateral required will be a multiple of this amount: 2x the base amount for the side which is reinforcing the preliminary ruling, and 3x the base amount for the side which is appealing the preliminary ruling. These deposits do not need to be supplied by a single party, but can be crowdsourced. When a final ruling is reached, the collateral of the losing side will be used to compensate jurors and reward funders of the opposing side proportional to their contribution.
```

### Final Ruling

> A final ruling is reached if a preliminary ruling is produced and neither side appeals, or if only one side appeals, or if the maximum number of appeals are reached. When a final ruling is produced the court needs to process collateral and stake redistribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A final ruling is reached if a preliminary ruling is produced and neither side appeals, if only one side appeals, or if the maximum number of appeals are reached. When a final ruling is produced, the court needs to process collateral and stake redistribution.
```

**Redistributing and Unlocking Juror Stake**

After a final ruling has been decided, all the adjudication rounds in the dispute can be settled. Jurors that didn't vote for the final ruling will lose the tokens that they had at stake. All the aggregated penalties and the juror fees in a round will be distributed proportionally among the jurors that voted for the final ruling option.

> In case that no juror in a round voted for the final ruling, the juror tokens will be burned and the collected juror fees for the round will be refunded to the creator of the dispute (in case that it was the first round) or to the appealing party that sided with the final ruling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case that no juror in a round voted for the final ruling, the juror tokens will be burned and the collected juror fees for the round will be refunded to the creator of the dispute (in the case that it was the first round) or to the appealing party that sided with the final ruling.
```

> In case that no juror in a round voted for the final ruling, the juror tokens will be burned and the collected juror fees for the round will be refunded to the creator of the dispute (in case that it was the first round) or to the appealing party that sided with the final ruling.

Reviewer: I see the phrases "burned" and "slashed", what would you say are the differences between these terms as used here?

Author: Should just be slashed here.

**Redistributing Collateral**

> If there was any appeal rounds before the final ruling, the total amount of collateral that was deposited for triggering each round will be assigned to the appealer supporting the final ruling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there were any appeal rounds before the final ruling, the total amount of collateral that was deposited for triggering each round will be assigned to the appealer supporting the final ruling.
```

> In the first adjudication round of a dispute (the original round created with the dispute), the Court doesn't directly manage collateral (as there may not be collateral at all or a different token is used). In case that there was collateral at stake depending on the Court ruling, whenever the Court has a final ruling it will notify the contract being *arbitered* with the ruling and this contract can then distribute collateral.

Reviewer 2: I guess I would say *arbitrated*, but again I'm not native English :zipper_mouth_face:

Reviewer 2: This is a good point, but may be a little bit confusing from the UX perspective. I hope we can mitigate this confusion from the front-end.

> In the first adjudication round of a dispute (the original round created with the dispute), the Court doesn't directly manage collateral (as there may not be collateral at all or a different token is used). In case that there was collateral at stake depending on the Court ruling, whenever the Court has a final ruling it will notify the contract being *arbitered* with the ruling and this contract can then distribute collateral.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first adjudication round of a dispute (the original round created with the dispute), the Court doesn't directly manage collateral (as there may not be collateral at all or a different token is used). In cases where there is collateral at stake depending on the Court ruling, whenever the Court has a final ruling it will notify the contract being *arbitrated* with the ruling and this contract can then redistribute the collateral.
```

> In the first adjudication round of a dispute (the original round created with the dispute), the Court doesn't directly manage collateral (as there may not be collateral at all or a different token is used). In case that there was collateral at stake depending on the Court ruling, whenever the Court has a final ruling it will notify the contract being *arbitered* with the ruling and this contract can then distribute collateral.

Reviewer: > In the first adjudication round of a dispute (the original round created with the dispute), the Court doesn't directly manage collateral (as there may not be collateral at all or a different token is used).

Does the Court manage collateral in the first round of a dispute in cases where there is collateral in the contract? And what is meant by "a different token"? Is the Court only able to manage collateral of a certain type?

> ## Fee Summary

Reviewer 2: Probably for another PR, but it would be good to have more detail about all fees here, maybe with some concrete examples with numbers, from all the perspectives: proposer and appealer (winner/loser), jurors on the winning side, jurors on the losing side, etc.

Author: Agreed, we should continue to iterate on this as we go.

> In order for the court to operate fees must be captured from users to compensate jurors for their effort, risk, and opportunity cost of capital. The market for dispute resolution services exhibits some dynamics of a predator-prey relationship. Disputes will be more rare if there is a common expectation that the dispute resolution process is reliable and fair. The result is that as disputes become more rare, or are settled in early dispute rounds, the incentive to participate as a juror decreases. As these incentives decrease there will be less stake in the court and the court may be perceived as less reliable, resulting in more disputes and more appeals leading to overall less consistent and efficient operation. To resolve this issue, fees are captured not just when disputes occur, but also on a recurring basis from users even when no disputes occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for the court to operate, fees must be captured from users to compensate jurors for their effort, risk, and opportunity cost of capital. The market for dispute resolution services exhibits some dynamics of a predator-prey relationship. Disputes will be more rare if there is a common expectation that the dispute resolution process is reliable and fair. The result is that as disputes become more rare, or are settled in early dispute rounds, the incentive to participate as a juror decreases. As these incentives decrease there will be less stake in the court and the court may be perceived as less reliable, resulting in more disputes and more appeals and leading to overall less consistent and efficient operation. To resolve this issue, fees are captured not just when disputes occur, but also on a recurring basis from users even when no disputes occur.
```

> In order for the court to operate fees must be captured from users to compensate jurors for their effort, risk, and opportunity cost of capital. The market for dispute resolution services exhibits some dynamics of a predator-prey relationship. Disputes will be more rare if there is a common expectation that the dispute resolution process is reliable and fair. The result is that as disputes become more rare, or are settled in early dispute rounds, the incentive to participate as a juror decreases. As these incentives decrease there will be less stake in the court and the court may be perceived as less reliable, resulting in more disputes and more appeals leading to overall less consistent and efficient operation. To resolve this issue, fees are captured not just when disputes occur, but also on a recurring basis from users even when no disputes occur.

Reviewer: > The market for dispute resolution services exhibits some dynamics of a predator-prey relationship.

I'm not sure I understand the link between this comparison and the description of the market that follows.

Author: Updated to "In order for the court to operate fees must be captured from users to compensate jurors for their effort, risk, and opportunity cost of capital. The market for dispute resolution services exhibits some dynamics of a predator-prey relationship where the demand to participate as a juror depends on the volume of disputes, and the volume of disputes depends on the reliable presence of honest jurors. Disputes will be more rare if there is a common expectation that the dispute resolution process is reliable and fair. The result is that as disputes become more rare, or are settled in early dispute rounds, the incentive to participate as a juror decreases. As these incentives decrease there will be less stake in the court and the court may be perceived as less reliable, resulting in more disputes and more appeals leading to overall less consistent and efficient operation. To resolve this issue, fees are captured not just when disputes occur, but also on a recurring basis from users even when no disputes occur. "

Does this help strengthen the link?

> - **Agreement Tax**: A tax is imposed on organizations which choose to use the court as an arbitration provider. Taxes must be paid on a recurring basis for the agreement to remain valid. These fees are split between the Aragon Network's treasury and among all actively staked jurors.

Reviewer: Why call it a "tax" instead of a fee? It's even called a fee later in the description:

> These fees are split between the Aragon Network's treasury and among all actively staked jurors.

It seems like a subscription fee.

> - **Agreement Tax**: A tax is imposed on organizations which choose to use the court as an arbitration provider. Taxes must be paid on a recurring basis for the agreement to remain valid. These fees are split between the Aragon Network's treasury and among all actively staked jurors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Agreement Tax**: A tax is imposed on organizations that choose to use the court as an arbitration provider. Taxes must be paid on a recurring basis for the agreement to remain valid. These fees are split between the Aragon Network's treasury and among all actively staked jurors.
```

> - **Agreement Tax**: A tax is imposed on organizations which choose to use the court as an arbitration provider. Taxes must be paid on a recurring basis for the agreement to remain valid. These fees are split between the Aragon Network's treasury and among all actively staked jurors.

Reviewer: Should the word "court" be capitalized here, as it is in earlier sections?

> - **Dispute Fee**: Dispute fees are captured at the time a dispute or appeal occurs. And are calculated based on a flat amount times the amount of juror stake selected in the dispute or appeal round. These fees are distributed only to drafted jurors who rule in favor of winning side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dispute Fee**: Dispute fees are captured at the time a dispute or appeal occurs and are calculated based on a flat amount multiplied by the amount of juror stake selected in the dispute or appeal round. These fees are distributed only to drafted jurors who rule in favor of the winning side.
```

This fee structure ensures that there is a consistent stream of revenue to support the operation of the court even if disputes occur irregularly. Fees are governed by the Aragon Network organization as described below.

## Governance

Governance authority over the court is granted to ANT holders by way of an Aragon organization.

> Initially, all votes will last 1 Month, require 50% approval and 1% approval quorum. Creating votes requires depositing 1000 ANT into a *proposal agreement* with the following terms:

Reviewer: > and 1% approval quorum

Is "approval quorum" being used as shorthand for "Minimum Acceptance Quorum"?

Author: Yes updated to reflect formal language for the voting parameters.

> Proposals must be made in good faith with the intention to improve the network's operational efficiency, quality, or breadth of service, and benefit all ANT holders in equal measure.

The organization will face many operational decisions, including but not limited to the following:

1. Changes to the organization's permissions or the content of the proposal agreement itself.
2. Changes to court fees and other configuration parameters.

> 3. Managing a treasury which is funded via a portion of the Court fees.

Reviewer: General comment on the whitepaper:

Will forking be addressed (if it needs to be)?

Author: I think forking and also the futarchy fork choice rule represent an improvement to the final appeal mechanics, which are not currently within the scope of the initial court mvp. I think they should definitely be included in a subsequent revision.

*Figure 3: Court operations are broken into Terms*

For each dispute or appeal we have a number of available *juror slots* that must be filled. Each slot can be thought of as a seat on the jury. A single juror can occupy multiple seats, but each seat is associated with an equal portion of their stake, which is committed and locked until the dispute is fully resolved.

One block after the heartbeat function is executed for the term in which a dispute is scheduled, a function to draft jurors for that dispute can be called. This function can be called at any point during the term and the resulting selection of jurors will be the same. If this transaction does not happen before the term ends the dispute must be rescheduled for a subsequent court term.

To make the draft function efficient, active jurors are arranged into a tree structure based on their stake. Using the random seed for the term and the id of the dispute a random number is generated and used to traverse the tree and arrive at a juror. This process is repeated until all juror slots for the dispute have been filled.

![](images/sortition-tree.png)

*Figure 4: Traversing the sortition tree to select a juror*

> Due to gas constraints, the draft function can select at most 100 juror slots per call. More that 100 juror slots can be selected using multiple transactions. To minimize the number of transactions required to select a specific proportion of total stake, the required amount of stake per juror slot can be increased in subsequent appeal rounds.

Reviewer 3: > To minimize the number of transactions required to select a specific proportion of total stake, the required amount of stake per juror slot can be increased in subsequent appeal rounds.

We are not planning on implementing this at the moment, so I would remove it.

> The sortition tree must be updated between terms as the proportional stake of jurors changes. Changes are queued and executed when the heartbeat function is called.

Reviewer 3: Would also remove as this is no longer the case with checkpointing
```suggestion
```

The amount of required collateral depends on the appeal round and is a multiple of the fees required to compensate selected jurors. In higher appeal rounds where more juror stake is selected to adjudicate the dispute, the base amount of collateral required will be higher. The total amount of collateral required to appeal will be a multiple of this amount, 2x the base amount for the side which is reinforcing the preliminary ruling, and 3x the base amount for side which is appealing the preliminary ruling. When the dispute is finalized the base amount is used to compensate jurors and the remainder is used to compensate the winning party for risking their appeal deposit. Appeal deposits can be crowdsourced so they do not need to be supplied by a single party.

> ### Final Ruling

Reviewer 3: I think we should add a section explaining how the final appeal works as it is quite different (one-draft-one-vote in regular appeals vs stake-weighted voting in the final one)

Reviewer 3: We can add it later in another PR though
